# ML-Code-for-Breast-Cancer
This is the machine learning training models and code for breast cancer classification project.
Affecting roughly around 10 percent of the women across the globe in some stage of their lives, Breast Cancer has stood out to be one of the most feared and frequently occurring cancers at present among women. While the cure for this cancer is now available in almost all first world and some of the third world nations, the main dilemma takes place when the cancer cannot be correctly identified at the very initial stages. Machine Learning, in this field has proved to play a vital role in predicting diseases such as cancers alike. Classification and data mining methods so far have been reliant and an effective way to classify data. Especially in medical field, these methods have been used to predict and to make decisions. This paper presents a comparison of six machine learning (ML) algorithms: Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN), Random Forest, Decision Tree and Support Vector Machine (SVM) on the Wisconsin Diagnostic Breast Cancer (WDBC) dataset by measuring their classification test accuracy, and their sensitivity and specificity values. The dataset consists of features which were computed from digitized images of FNA tests on a breast mass. For the implementation of the ML algorithms, the dataset was partitioned in the following fashion: 80% for training phase, and 20% for the testing phase. Results show that all the presented ML algorithms performed well (all exceeded 90% test accuracy) on the classification task. The Random Forest algorithm stands out among the implemented algorithms with a test accuracy of ≈ 97.4%.
